Introducing the Kubernetes APIServer metrics check (#3746)
DataDog/integrations-core: kube_apiserver_metrics/README.md

# Agent Check: Kube_apiserver_metrics

## Overview

This check monitors [Kube_apiserver_metrics][1].

## Setup

### Installation

> The Kube_apiserver_metrics check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package, so you do not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Kube_apiserver_metrics check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package, so you do not need to install anything else on your server.
```

> need to install anything else on your server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
weird spacing

### Configuration

The main use case to run the kube_apiserver_metrics check is as a Cluster Level Check.
Refer to the dedicated documentation for [Cluster Level Checks][3].
You can annotate the service of your apiserver with the following:
```
Annotations:       ad.datadoghq.com/endpoint.check_names: ["kube_apiserver_metrics"]
                   ad.datadoghq.com/endpoint.init_configs: [{}]
                   ad.datadoghq.com/endpoint.instances:
                     [
                       {
                         "prometheus_url": "%%host%%:%%port%%/metrics"
                       }
                     ]
```
The Datadog Cluster Agent will then schedule the check(s) for each endpoint onto Datadog Agent(s).

> Disclaimer: Your apiserver(s) need to run as pods, support for other methods (systemd unit) will be added in an upcoming version of the Datadog Cluster Agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Disclaimer: Run your apiserver(s) as pods.
```
It's a bad idea to promise future functionality.

# Agent Check: Kube_apiserver_metrics

## Overview

This check monitors [Kube_apiserver_metrics][1].

## Setup

### Installation

The Kube_apiserver_metrics check is included in the [Datadog Agent][2] package, so you do not need to install anything else on your server.

### Configuration

The main use case to run the kube_apiserver_metrics check is as a Cluster Level Check.
Refer to the dedicated documentation for [Cluster Level Checks][3].
You can annotate the service of your apiserver with the following:
```
Annotations:       ad.datadoghq.com/endpoint.check_names: ["kube_apiserver_metrics"]
                   ad.datadoghq.com/endpoint.init_configs: [{}]
                   ad.datadoghq.com/endpoint.instances:
                     [
                       {
                         "prometheus_url": "%%host%%:%%port%%/metrics",
                         "bearer_token_auth": "true",
                       }
                     ]
```

> The Datadog Cluster Agent will then schedule the check(s) for each endpoint onto Datadog Agent(s).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then the Datadog Cluster Agent schedules the check(s) for each endpoint onto Datadog Agent(s).
```

> Disclaimer: Your apiserver(s) need to run as pods, other methods (e.g. systemd unit) are not supported at the moment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Disclaimer: Your apiserver(s) need to run as pods, other methods (e.g. systemd unit) are not supported.
```

> You can also run the check by configuring the endpoints directly in the `kube_apiserver_metrics.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can also run the check by configuring the endpoints directly in the `kube_apiserver_metrics.d/conf.yaml` file, in the `conf.d/` folder at the root of your [Agent’s configuration directory][9].
```

See the [sample kube_apiserver_metrics.d/conf.yaml][2] for all available configuration options.

> By default the agent running the check will try to get the Service Account bearer token to authenticate against the APIServer, if you are not using RBACs, you can set `bearer_token_auth` to `false`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default the Agent running the check tries to get the service account bearer token to authenticate against the APIServer. If you are not using RBACs, set `bearer_token_auth` to `false`.
```

> Finally, if you run the Datadog Agent on the master nodes, you can rely on [Autodiscovery][4] to schedule the check. It will be automatic if you are running the official image `k8s.gcr.io/kube-apiserver`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, if you run the Datadog Agent on the master nodes, you can rely on [Autodiscovery][4] to schedule the check. It is automatic if you are running the official image `k8s.gcr.io/kube-apiserver`.
```

> 2. [Restart the Agent][5]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. [Restart the Agent][5].
```

### Validation

> [Run the Agent's `status` subcommand][6] and look for `kube_apiserver_metrics` under the Checks section.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[Run the Agent's status subcommand][6] and look for `kube_apiserver_metrics` under the Checks section.
```

## Data Collected

### Metrics

See [metadata.csv][7] for a list of metrics provided by this integration.

### Service Checks

Kube_apiserver_metrics does not include any service checks.

### Events

Kube_apiserver_metrics does not include any events.

## Troubleshooting

Need help? Contact [Datadog support][8].

[1]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/command-line-tools-reference/kube-apiserver/
[2]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/kube_apiserver_metrics/datadog_checks/kube_apiserver_metrics/data/conf.yaml.example
[3]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/autodiscovery/clusterchecks/
[4]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/autodiscovery/?tab=kubernetes
[5]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/faq/agent-commands/#start-stop-restart-the-agent
[6]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/faq/agent-commands/#agent-status-and-information
[7]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/kube_apiserver_metrics/metadata.csv

> [8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[8]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/help/
[9]: https://docs.datadoghq.com/agent/guide/agent-configuration-files/#agent-configuration-directory
```
